end of the course and in this final
lesson we're going to take a look how to
deploy V application and the service for
the deployment that we are going to be
using is called GitHub pages in fact
there are a lot more services that
provide support for when it comes to
deployment and the deployment process is
pretty simple for any of those services
so we're going to review deployment
steps by using GitHub Pages as always I
have already prepared default vid
application which we're going to deploy
and actually before get into the
deployment we need to make sure that
that our repository exists on GitHub
which in my case it does so we can go
directly to the deployment we will not
change any default configurations so
after building our project all build
files will be located inside this folder
and this is exactly the folder which is
going to be deployed so here in docs
let's choose the option deployment to
GitHub pages and our repository URL
corresponds to this format where we have
two URL segments first one is our GitHub
username and the second one is the name
of the repository so the only
configuration option we have to specify
will be the option called base and this
option should contain the name of our
repository so let's just go ahead and
create configuration file vi. config.js
in the root of this project from here
we're going to expert configuration
object which with only one option base
where we're going to specify repository
name which in my case is vit Das
deployment and once again this is really
important that this option Val should
match repository name on GitHub so now
we have to create new commit where we're
going to include our configuration file
let's specify any message and push this
commit to
GitHub after that let's just make sure
that the new commit appears in the
GitHub history of our project it is the
second commit then let's open up
settings tab the main branch of our
repository is main so we're going to
deploy this branch and now on the left
side let's open up page called pages and
in here we have to set up some
deployment configurations firstly in
this Source dropdown we have to choose
option GitHub actions and then let's
click this link create your own which is
basically going to create an empty
deployment configuration file let's
clear out all this predefined content
and specify our own configurations and
these configurations are listed in vit
docs so we just have to copy over this
whole configuration paste it in that
file and let's quickly go through some
of the options specified in this file in
here we can see which branch is going to
be deployed and down here there are a
couple of steps which will be executed
during deployment for example in here we
can see that the node version which is
going to be used to build our project
will be version 18 then we're going to
install all npm dependencies by running
npm install after that we're going to
build a project by running npm run build
and at the end once this folder with our
built files will be created this folder
will be deployed to GitHub Pages server
then let's just give this configuration
file a name for example deploy yml and
click commit changes in here let's make
sure that the new commit will be created
on the main branch let's click commit
changes once again and then we can see
another new commit in the commit history
this the commit with the configuration
file for deployment we have just created
and then if we open up top actions here
we can actually see the new deployment
task that is currently running and this
is our deployment task so anytime we're
going to push changes to the main branch
it will automatically kick off the
deployment process and by clicking on
this task we can actually inspect what
steps are executed during the deployment
and once this deployment will be
successfully finished we can once again
open up settings tab and then go to
Pages page and in here we will see the
URL where our application will be
available on the web so by following
this URL we can see that our application
was successfully deployed on GitHub
pages and that's it we were able to
successfully deploy V application on
GitHub Pages server as we can see it was
pretty simple process and if we decide
to deploy our project by using another
hosting provider the deployment process
is going to be pretty simple as well and
with that we are finishing this course
about vid bundler